Systems of Linear Equations ( Week 1)

In general, the word array refers to an orderly arrangement or a large collection of things.
Programming: A data structure that stores a fixed-size collection of elements (like numbers or words), usually of the same type.
In math, an array is often synonymous with a matrix. A set of numbers or symbols arranged in a rectangular grid of rows and columns.


System of Linear Equations: w_1 * x_1 ^(m)  + w_2 * x_2 ^(m) + ......  + b = y^(m)  ; W and B values are same

 W.X +b = y

Note Linear algebra is all about manipulating vectors and matrix to do powerful calculations.

Non -singular equation: It has complete information
Singular equation: It has redundant or contraditory equations


System of equations
System 1 : Complete, non-singular; Unique
System 2 : Redundant, Singular; Infinite solutions
System 3 : Contradictory,Parallel, Singular; No Solution

Linear equations is represented as line when plotted in graph. 
When you graph a linear equation with two variables (like $2x + 3y = 6$) on a flat piece of paper (a 2D plane), it forms a straight line.
When you graph a linear equation with three variables (like $2x + 3y + 4z = 12$) in 3D space, it forms a flat, infinite sheet known as a plane.

Constant do not matter for singularity.

The determinant is essentially a diagnostic number for a matrix. Just as a doctor might check your temperature to see if you are healthy, a mathematician checks the determinant to see if a matrix is "healthy" (invertible) or "sick" (singular).
The determinant tells you how much a matrix stretches or squishes space.

Determinant of matrix (ad-bc)

NumPy is the main package for scientific computing in Python. 
It performs a wide variety of advanced mathematical operations with high efficiency.

What is an "Object"?
Think of an object as a container that holds two things:

Data (Properties): Facts describing the object (like color, size, weight).
Actions (Methods): Things the object can do (like run, open, save)

NumPy provides an array object that is much faster and more compact than Python lists
The array object in NumPy is called ndarray meaning 'n-dimensional array'.

Numpy functions:
np.array()
np.arange()
np.linspace()

With 1-D arrays, where you can access their elements using a single index. A multidimensional array has more than one column. 
Think of a multidimensional array as an excel sheet where each row/column represents a dimension.

a=np.array([[1,2,3],[4,5,6]])
np.reshape(a,(2,3))

Dimension:
Physical world: a dimension is a direction in which you can measure size.
Math: a dimension is a variable required to describe a position. 
It is often about "Degrees of Freedom"—how many different numbers do I need to tell you exactly where a point is?
Programming: dimension" usually refers to the organization of data.

0 Dimensions (Scalar)
1 Dimension (1D Array / List)
2 Dimensions (2D Array / Matrix)
3 Dimensions (3D Array)

If you hear a Data Scientist say, "This dataset has high dimensionality," they are usually talking about columns in a table.
ndim counts how many indices you need to locate a single item.

np.ndim : returns dimensions
np.shape : returns dimension shape
np.size: returns total number of elements

Broadcasting, slicing, indexing
Slicing gives you a sublist of elements that you specify from the array. 

 Note that a == a[:] == a[::]
Remember that indexing of arrays in Python starts from zero,

 `np.empty()` outputs an uninitialized array, but `np.zeros()` outputs an initialized array of value zero.


Representing system of equations as matrixes
Use the NumPy linear algebra package to model systems of linear equations as matrices.
Evaluate the determinant of the matrix and examine the relationship between matrix singularity and the number of solutions of the linear system.

np.vstack() - stacks vertically
np.hstack() - stacks horizontally
np.hsplit() - splits an array into several smaller arrays


System of Linear Equations
A system of linear equations (or linear system) is a collection of one or more linear equations involving the same variables. 
We can represent linear systems of equations as matrices.

𝐴 is a matrix, as you've seen previously, where each row represents one equation in the system, and each column corresponds to the variables 𝑥1
 and 𝑥2 . 𝑏 is a 1-D array of the free (right side) coefficients.

Solving Systems of Linear Equations ( Week 2)

Elimination emthod (Matrix reduction/Gaussian)

Row operations preserve singularity.

Remember that np.linalg.solve gives an error if there are no or infinitely many solutions. When using it, you will need to check for that case to prevent your program from crashing.


Rank of a matrix: Amount of information system is carrying./ Rank of corresponding system of equations.
Compressing images--reducing rank

There's a special relationship between the rank of a matrix and its solution space.  the solution space for each of these matrices is the set of solutions to the system of equations when the constants are 0.


Find rank by doing row echelon form of matrix.


